# SQL_CC_FINAL
CanCode Final project - please view in "raw" format

  SQL is an effective language to use when analyzing data. The package "HRCorePackage" contains data that would be needed by a Human Resources department. the term "package" refers to the use of ETL (Extract, Transform, and Load) methodology using SSIS (SQL Server Inegration Services). In short, ETL is the method with which you can map data in a database, estabilishing definitions, limits, characteristics, and that is done throuugh SSIS, that serves as the liason to transport the data into a SQL Server (where one can access the data through an interface such as Microsoft SQL Server or Visual Studio Code). 
  
  In the package created (HRCorePackage), you will find the database "HR_CORE" and withinit, its tables HR_Employee_info, Contracts_SOLD, HR_Leadership, HR_PromotionPath, and HR_Employee_Retention. In this database, all of the tables relate to each other through one common column- "Employee_ID", which is the Primary Key in HR_Employee_info, and the Foreign Key in every other table. Primary key refers to the fact that the column has to be unique in nature, cannot contain NULL values. The first instance we see this column is the main table HR_Employee_info. The foreign key signifies that the column that is the primary key shows up in different tables, establishing that that is the column that ties all the tables together in a relationship. 
    
    In the different commits within this repository, you will find different instances that test different commands. First, you have the SQL Code that will create the database manually, as well as the tables, and establishes datatypes, their length, and all the relationships that exist in the tables. Second, there is the debugging_and_assigningPKFK commit. This provides SQL Code to alter tables to adjust the datatype for the Employee_ID column, adjust its limit, assign the primary and foreign keys,and check to see if the changes are seen in the table HR_Employee_info. Third, the sql code in the truncating_tables commit is an optional step in case there are duplicate values in the tables and establishing a clean slate so that the ETL Package may be run again and then reloaded into the SQL Server. Fourth is the Function commit, in this commit you will find SQL Code that has a stored function that counts the amount of satisfied employees in the HR_Employee_Retention table. Fifth, there is the View commit. In this commit you will find SQL Code that creates a table to see a customization of information and see how they relate. Sixth, there is the update commit. In this commit, you will find SQL code that edits the table HR_Employee_Retention to reflect a different satisfaction level of one of the employees. Seventh, you will find the Insert_into commit. This commit inserts new values to various columns in the HR_Employee_info table. Eighth is the delete commit. In this commit, you will find SQL Code that deletes one row that was added during the Insert_into commit. Lastly, the SELECT commit. This serves as a viewing of contracts sold, the amount they sold for, and the type of sale description.

    All in all, the different commits serve as a way to test the data, analyze it, and view it in different ways.
